---
label: Validators
description: Validator role and responsibility
---

# Validator
A validator is an individual who is responsible for validating transactions and generating blocks within a blockchain. 

## Validator roles

There are three validator roles:
* **Validator Candidate.** After registering as a validator on Ronin, you'll become a Validator Candidate and have a chance to be selected as a Standard Validator on the next day.
* **Standard Validator.** Every day, 10 Validator Candidates with the highest amount staked are selected as Standard Validators. The system records your total staking amount at 00:00 UTC every day for the selection process. 
* **Governing Validator.** The validators chosen by the community and Sky Mavis to ensure network security. Governing Validators are validators by default, and they account for more than half of the total validator pool.

## Become a validator
Follow the steps in [Become a validator](./../../validators/onboarding/become-validator.mdx).

### RON requirements for validators
Each Ronin validator is required to stake 250,000 RON.

## Validator selection
The validators are selected using DPoS. Beside the 12 Governing Validators, top 10 Validator Candidates with the highest staked amount are selected as Standard Validators.

## Validator responsibilities
Validators are in charge of the following:
* Generating blocks.
* Operating a bridge operator.
* Operating a governor (Governing Validators only).

### Generating blocks
Whenever a block is generated, the next validator has to validate incoming transactions and generate a new block.

The block generated by the designated validator has a larger difficult weight. If the designated validator can not produce a block, the other validators generate a new block. In this case, that block has a smaller difficult weight. These difficult weights help nodes have additional facilities to reorganize in case the chain is forked.

### Operating a bridge operator
A bridge operator validates cross-chain transactions between the Ethereum and Ronin blockchains. 

### Operating a governor
A governor is empowered to vote for proposals such as adding or removing Governing Validators, upgrading smart contracts, changing thresholds, and more. Governors also sync the set of bridge operators from the Ronin chain to the Ethereum chain.

### Slashing penalties
If validators fail to fulfill the responsibilities, their RON stake is at risk of being [slashed](../../validators/slashing/slashing.mdx).
